So yeah, we've got all that in place and
we can test all that.
We can do other tests
while we're in here and
just kinda like all sorts of fun stuff.
Let's see,
that's just like does it have account?
Let's make another test because it's like,
could you jam a whole bunch of
expectations into one test?
Great, but then when it fails,
now you gotta figure out why.
Versus if you had a story called,
with text too long and
your CICD breaks and
it says text area text too long fails,
you know what it might've been,
versus you have one thing that's
got like a thousand things now
you gotta figure it all out.
So we'll say X were not
length too long nope.
All right, so we got that in place and
we'll say that the args has a max
length of, I'll stick with 104.
I don't know why I'm committed
to something I hate.
So now what we'll say is that the console
input value is H plus A repeat 140
times plus Y exclamation point a very
long you know what even better.
Cool so,
by definition be 142 as well in there.
And yeah, like you could theoretically
start on the variable and keep it,
but let's not get carried away here.
And so now what we can do is,
let's keep a version of
that initial test right,
I don't hate that idea in here.
We do need to bring in
the the act of typing,
because otherwise SAS will fail for
a very different reason.
And then we'll also say that we expect
the text area to have the ARIA invalid.
I wrote that code.
I know that it will put an ARIA tag on
there that should set invalid to true,
because I found out the hard way
where it's not technically invalid in
the DOM and I got angry.
[LAUGH] That's how I know there's
an ARIA tag in there now.
And I can say, I can even do stuff like,
remember in light mode
that it didn't work.
So hopefully my test,
I know that it should apply this
class of ring danger 500, right?
Now, I didn't see it, and so that's
a different story to look at in a second,
but hopefully a test
should fail otherwise,
I'm gonna be scratching my head
because I didn't see a red ring.
And let's start with those.
It's in dark mode, so theoretically it
will fail this time, or it will pass.
All right and so you can see that types
of like with a longer string you can
definitely see the act of typing so they
are real-ish user directions you can see
that like it does have the right length
in there that the ARIA tag is actually
invalid now that it does
have that red ring.
The class is there,
I don't know why it's not red.
We can deal with that momentarily.
I might just see my class order.
We'll talk about in a second.
I have I have an idea
that is a distraction.
I'm not ignoring it, I'm just trying to
stay focused for a minute here, cool.
So we can like, here's a test where
we're gonna hopefully catch it if not.
You can even say expect the text area
Let's say two,
That's the count really so
that we can expect the count to turn red,
I don't necessarily off the top of
my head know the exact syntax for
the border color at test, that can't
be the right color we'll find out.
So yeah, the rail color,
this is about this color here.
You can actually say like class aside
is the color that I expect right?
And this is something I would store in
a variable somewhere generated from
the design system, be like,
all my blue buttons the color
blue they're supposed to be?
You can actually write
something here as well.
So let's actually grab this color.
I was like, yeah,
there's no way it's that color.
So we're gonna expect the detects area and
I don't know I'm like,
before it's kinda live coding,
I'm truly live coding.
Cuz now it's like I'm bothered
by this yeah, border color.
But that one does fail
cuz it's not in fact red.
Here is my quick hypothesis
that it's not important, but
we're gonna talk about
it anyway 'cause again,
just not dealing with it feels like
irresponsible as a professional.
The classes can sometimes
conflict with each other,
CX will just kind of like put them
on top of each other and hope for
the best, but if you have two
classes that are styling the ring,
it could be like,
the other one could win out.
So, there is a useful tool, which I
believe I have installed in package JSON.
This is Tailwind specific to be clear.
No, that's all it's called,
Called to win the merge,
if not all MPM install it nope which
is basically it tries to de doop and
actually take the order seriously,
and stuff like that.
Yeah, well, we'll try this for a second so
you can use this tw merge instead and
that will try to like de-conflict
your tailwind classes.
I hate this where it calls it tw merge so
a lot of times i'll do it as merge
because that's me as a person that
you're all learning about
simultaneously cool, cool, cool.
I will look at that later.
It's not super important why
the classes are not totally silent but
it does validate that the system works
right like me going into a weird like
styling issue, not the best use of our
time, but maybe I did it intentionally to
demonstrate what a real life situation
might be is totally planned.
It's very cool ,and there are other things
that we can do in here as well just
to kinda show you and again like you could
do all they have all the different nuances
and like what everything you know from
every component testing thing that like
either on front of masters you've done
applies here but it's nice to see it and
get the sense and the step through stuff.
It's like, I like writing component
tests now there, I said it.
Actually why don't you do this one as a
challenge because I looked at my notes it
says quick exercise you do this one.
So I'm gonna listen to past me and
what he said,
you know it'd be great shouldn't be
able to type in a disabled one Georgia,
right could we write a play test that says
like hey, this thing should literally,
if it has the prop disabled,
it should be disabled, right?
As a bonus, even the act of trying to type
in it should not change the content of it,
right?
Or anything you wanna try with
the disabled one, if another one makes you
happy, but looking at my notes,
it says, quick exercise.
Can you write a test to check for
the following?
Its disabled text area is in fact,
disabled.
Typing the text area does not
change the value of the text area.
All right, so some base and
yeah are we technically testing
built-in DOM functionality?
Sure but I think it makes our point so
let's go with it.
So in this case, we're gonna say play.
We'll have an async function here.
Don't know what I typed before to well.
Fine, whatever, we can expect to be
disabled that seems to make sense.
If you pass this table
that should be beaut.
And somebody says they feel stupid,
but honestly, we've all been bitten.
We've all been bitten.
Like we know, sometimes these so
many tests are great.
And we'll say a wait, we'll say user
event to type something in there.
But then we should expect it not to have
any value because it was disabled and
you shouldn't be able to type into it.
Right, and even little stuff like that
first of all, not that hard to write, but
then also we can go in there the test
automatically runs even the act
of looking at it runs the test, right?
And we can see that
everything that we tried,
like executed like it typed the character
found the thing and tried to type into it.
Right, nothing changed, right?
So we get that initial
validation in there as well.